in certain programs we need to evaluate an expressiin against series values, in such case we use the switch statement.
although this program could be written using if and cascading if statements, using switch is more readable and lessn error prone

if (grade== 4)
	printf ("Excellent");
else if (grade== 3)
	printf ("Good") ;
else if (grade== 2)
	printf ("Average");
else if (grade== J)
	printf ("Poor'') ;
else if (g:rade == 0)
	printf ("Failing");
else
	printf("Illegal grade") ;

the above program could be written using the switch statement
switch(grade) {
	case 4: printf("Excellent");
	break;

	case 3: printf("Good");
	break;

	case 2: printf("Average");
	break;

	case 1: printf("Poor");
	break;

	case 0: printf("Failing");
	break;

	default: printf("Illegal value");
	break;
}

when the above statement is evaluated value of grade is checked agains 4,3,2,1,0 . if incase grade matches 4 then the output is Excellent
and the switch statement hand the control to the break statement. incase none of the cases matches, then the default value is evaluated.

switch is more easier to read than the cascading if statement, especially when there are multiple cases.
syntax: 

switch (expression) {
	case expression: statement;
	break;
	....

	default: statement;
	break;
}

** components of a switch program **
controlling expressoin -- switch keyword is followed by a integer value in parenthesis. characters in c can also be treated as a integer
and can be tested in switch statement. floating point and strings do not work with switch statements.

case label -- each case/test begins with the form--> case constant-expression:
constant-expression - is same as any other expression, just that it can't have variable or function calls. example 5 is a constant-expression, 5 + 10
is a constant-expression but n + 10 is not a constant-expression -- these constant-expression must ultimately evaluate to a integer value.

statemens: each case is followed by a statements. no braces required with these statements. the last statement is usally a break statement.

NOTE: duplicate case is not allowed. and default case need not be in the last, and can be in any position. howver multiple preceeding
cases can share the same statements;
example:
switch (grade) {
	case 4: case 3: case 2: case 1:
		printf("Passing");
		break;
	case 0:
		printf("failing");
		break;
	default:
		printf("illegal value");
		break;
}

note: there is no way to write a switch case in which the case value takes a range of interger values. if in any
way there is no default case it is not compulsory, and in case if the case does not match with any of the grade then
the control is simply transferred to the next statement after the switch.

